[GSSI] Rewrite section on Conda-based managers (#566)
hpcleuven/VscDocumentation: source/compute/software/installing_software/conda_based_managers.rst

Conda-based environment managers
================================

`Conda <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/>`_ is a package and environment
manager which has become relatively popular for scientific software stacks.
With proper care, it can be used to install software yourself that you
want to run on HPC hardware. Note that using Conda requires knowledge
of potential :ref:`license <conda_channels>`,
:ref:`performance <conda_performance>` and :ref:`storage <conda_storage>`
pitfalls.

.. warning::

   As a rule, Conda packages cannot be used together with software that has

>    been installed as a module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   As a general rule, Conda packages cannot be used together with software
   provided by :ref:`software modules <cluster_modules_general>`.
```

* `Miniforge <https://conda-forge.org/download/>`_
* `Micromamba <https://mamba.readthedocs.io/>`_
* Conda packages can also be installed in `Pixi <https://pixi.prefix.dev/>`_
  environments

Barring any special requirements, we would recommend to use a centrally
installed ``Miniforge3`` module, for example:

.. code-block:: shell

   module load Miniforge3/25.3.0-3

This has the following advantages:

* The same base installation does not get duplicated by every user.
* You will not be able to add packages to the ``base`` environment,
  which is generally considered good practice.
* By default, Miniforge will only include the (unrestricted) ``conda-forge``
  community channel and not the default channels which are subject to
  :ref:`Anaconda's terms of service <conda_channels>`.

.. note::

   As you presumably know, loading modules in your startup source files
   :ref:`is to be avoided <module_system_basics>`. If you search a convenient
   way to enable Miniforge, consider adding an alias to your ``~/.bashrc``
   instead:

   .. code-block:: shell

      alias loadminiforge='module load Miniforge3/25.3.0-3'

> The next paragraph will show how to get started with Miniforge, followed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next sections, we will show how to get started with Miniforge, followed
```

by more advanced topics, including possible pitfalls and information on other
Conda distributions.

.. _conda_miniforge:

Getting started with Miniforge
------------------------------

Assuming you have loaded a ``Miniforge3`` module, you will first need to
configure the environment and package cache directories. Otherwise Miniforge

> will use default locations in your ``$VSC_HOME``, which is clearly not ideal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will use default locations in your ``$VSC_HOME``, which can easily fill
up all space in your home directory. The environments directory should
be placed in ``$VSC_DATA`` and the cache can go into ``$VSC_SCRATCH``.
```

Conda-based environment managers
================================

`Conda <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/>`_ is a package and environment
manager which has become relatively popular for scientific software stacks.
With proper care, it can be used to install software yourself that you
want to run on HPC hardware.

.. warning::

   Using Conda is discouraged on the clusters at UAntwerpen, UGent,

>    and VUB.

Reviewer 2: There's two sides to this:
- non-open license
- caveats with using conda w.r.t. consumption of storage, home directory, potential performance impact

We should link to the sections below that covers those aspects.

Author: addressed in 2ed5a481513af5a0331e5a984d6458c5e55f2e9e
